README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/workflows/Node%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/actions?workflow=Node+CI)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/364443f9f30c4b70b56e5be76c9e079c)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/DependencyTrack/frontend/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=DependencyTrack/frontend&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-brightgreen.svg)][License]
[![Latest (including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dependencytrack/frontend?include_prereleases)](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/releases)

Dependency-Track Front-End
=========

The Front-End is a Single Page Application (SPA) used in Dependency-Track, an open source Component Analysis platform 
that allows organizations to identify and reduce risk in the software supply chain.

The project is built with:

* Vue.js
* Bootstrap Vue
* CoreUI

<hr>

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track/master/docs/images/screenshots/dashboard.png)

## Compatibility Matrix

Always use the Front-End version that is compatible with the Dependency-Track API Server in use.

| Dependency-Track API Server | Front-End |
|:-----|:-----|
| v4.2 | v4.2 |
| v4.1 | v1.2 |
| v4.0 | v1.1 |
| v3.8 | v1.0 |
| v1.0 - v3.7.1 | Not supported |

Starting with Dependency-Track v4.2, the API Server and the Frontend now have the same major and minor (semantic) version. Patch versions however, may continue to be unique.

## Binary Distributions

Pre-compiled distributions are available in two variants:
* [Docker container running NGINX](https://hub.docker.com/r/dependencytrack/frontend)
* [GitHub Release (zip archive)](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/releases)

The Docker container provides the fastest, most consistent deployment option and is recommended. 
The Docker container includes NGINX and a pre-deployed Front-End release.

## Build Setup

``` bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Serve with hot reload at localhost:8080
npm run serve

# Build for production with minification
npm run build

# Run linter
npm run lint

# Generates a CycloneDX software bill-of-materials
npm run bom
```

## Development Setup

In order to test with a Dependency-Track instance, the `.env.development` file needs to be modified and the `VUE_APP_SERVER_URL` property updated to 
reflect the base URL of a Dependency-Track server.

## Deployment

![Deployment Options](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/master/docs/images/Frontend-Deployment.svg?sanitize=true)

The front-end is deployed to a general purpose web server (e.g. NGINX or Apache). To configure the front-end 
for this scenario, simply change the value of API_BASE_URL in static/config.json.

```json
{
  "API_BASE_URL": "https://drack-server.example.com"
}
```

## Internationalization (i18n)

This project supports internationalization. Currently, only English language is supported. Pull requests to support additional languages are encouraged.

Note to developers: Textual labels are defined in `src/i18n/locales/{lang}.json`. Ensure that all labels are defined here and that components use i18n, not textual labels directly.

Copyright & License
-------------------

Dependency-Track is Copyright (c) Steve Springett. All Rights Reserved.

Permission to modify and redistribute is granted under the terms of the 
Apache 2.0 license. See the [LICENSE] file for the full license.

[License]: https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

NodeJS 18 & 20
Signed-off-by: Walter de Boer <walterdeboer@dbso.nl>

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/workflows/Node%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/actions?workflow=Node+CI)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/364443f9f30c4b70b56e5be76c9e079c)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/DependencyTrack/frontend/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=DependencyTrack/frontend&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-brightgreen.svg)][License]
[![Latest (including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dependencytrack/frontend?include_prereleases)](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/releases)

Dependency-Track Front-End
=========

The Front-End is a Single Page Application (SPA) used in Dependency-Track, an open source Component Analysis platform
that allows organizations to identify and reduce risk in the software supply chain.

The project is built with:

* Vue.js
* Bootstrap Vue
* CoreUI

<hr>

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track/master/docs/images/screenshots/dashboard.png)

## Compatibility Matrix

Always use the Front-End version that is compatible with the Dependency-Track API Server in use.

| Dependency-Track API Server | Front-End |
|:-----|:-----|
| v4.2 | v4.2 |
| v4.1 | v1.2 |
| v4.0 | v1.1 |
| v3.8 | v1.0 |
| v1.0 - v3.7.1 | Not supported |

Starting with Dependency-Track v4.2, the API Server and the Frontend now have the same major and minor (semantic) version. Patch versions however, may continue to be unique.

## Binary Distributions

Pre-compiled distributions are available in two variants:
* [Docker container running NGINX](https://hub.docker.com/r/dependencytrack/frontend)
* [GitHub Release (zip archive)](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/releases)

The Docker container provides the fastest, most consistent deployment option and is recommended.
The Docker container includes NGINX and a pre-deployed Front-End release.

## Build Setup

Webpack 4 has an [issue with nodejs 17 and higher](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/14532) resulting in: `Error: error:0308010C:digital envelope routines::unsupported`. As a workaround you'll need to set the following NODE_OPTIONS on Linux:

``` bash
export NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider
```

Or on Windows:
``` bash
set NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider
```

After that you can run:

``` bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Serve with hot reload at localhost:8080
npm run serve

# Build for production with minification
npm run build

# Run linter
npm run lint

# Generates a CycloneDX software bill-of-materials
npm run bom
```

## Development Setup

In order to test with a Dependency-Track instance, the `.env.development` file needs to be modified and the `VUE_APP_SERVER_URL` property updated to
reflect the base URL of a Dependency-Track server.

## Deployment

![Deployment Options](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/master/docs/images/Frontend-Deployment.svg?sanitize=true)

The front-end is deployed to a general purpose web server (e.g. NGINX or Apache). To configure the front-end
for this scenario, simply change the value of API_BASE_URL in static/config.json.

```json
{
  "API_BASE_URL": "https://drack-server.example.com"
}
```

## Internationalization (i18n)

This project supports internationalization. Currently, only English language is supported. Pull requests to support additional languages are encouraged.

Note to developers: Textual labels are defined in `src/i18n/locales/{lang}.json`. Ensure that all labels are defined here and that components use i18n, not textual labels directly.

Copyright & License
-------------------

Dependency-Track is Copyright (c) Steve Springett. All Rights Reserved.

Permission to modify and redistribute is granted under the terms of the
Apache 2.0 license. See the [LICENSE] file for the full license.

[License]: https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/blob/master/LICENSE
